
English 10 RLA  
15 April 2021  

The color eye see  
	&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;In The White Card, many characters show signs of racial bias. The small but many microaggressions they commit mirror acts in real life, and the play represents them very well. Rankine uses the play to show how all people see racial differences, but many can’t see their own microaggressions.  
	&ensp;Everyone’s view of the world is at least partially based on race. There is no such thing as racially impartial and nobody is free from their prejudices. We all see the same physical things, but what our brains interpret can be very different. A quote from Kan Gao I like is “I think all our memories, and everything in it… can be nothing but the fiction we tell ourselves.” Many people, especially white people as shown in The White Card, don’t realize the small microaggressions that occur in their daily lives. For example, Charles misremembers “My President Was Black” as “My Obama,” Virginia and Eric were stubborn about their memory and pronunciation mistakes, and Charles continually refers to the protests Alex attends as “Trump rallies,” despite being corrected multiple times.  
What we humans “see” isn’t like a raw image captured by a camera, but input heavily processed by our brain, merging images from both eyes, filling in details, and making lots of guesses. Our perception is generated by our brains, and not the literal light waves hitting our retinas. Therefore, what people “see” is subject to their beliefs, and what they have been taught. This also allows for change, but even through art depicting struggle and death, people’s opinions are not easily changed. One way change is shown in The White Card is when the perpetrator is put on the spot as an individual, such as when Charlotte singled Charles out.
	&ensp;My creative project is about seeing, specifically how everyone sees the world in a racially biased way. I created a website which can be viewed at https://melumi11.github.io/white-card-project/, using html documentation found on the internet. I also animated a color-changing eye that goes along with the textual part of the website, using blender keyframes and a base model by Andy Cuccaro. The website appears to be an advertisement for eyes at first, but it is actually meant to show how everyone sees things differently. The site claims to offer eyes that “allows our customers to not only be able to change their eye color at will, but also obtain the power to completely ignore racial differences, seeing everybody the same way.” This is a complete lie, but it is marketed towards people like Charles who want to help but are disconnected from reality. “With our iColor, you will never have to fear confrontations with people of other races … Gone are the days where you were afraid of offending people, not knowing what you did wrong … your life can be free of worry forever” are parts that describe some of Charles’s wishes in the form of an advertisement. The spoilered part of the website also explains the project’s meaning, similarly to the rest of this essay.
	&ensp;The color-changing eye animation in my project shows how all eyes see color, and that art is not enough to change how we think. It has already been established that everyone has racial bias, and the color-changing eye changes colors, representing the seeing of race and how we don’t see everyone as equal. Our inclinations change depending on the skin color of who we are interacting with. The eye’s iris cycles between brown, yellow/orange, green/blue, and white/grey, which are examples of skin tones.  
	&ensp;The more meta part of the project shows how art usually cannot change someone’s beliefs. Like Charlotte’s art in The White Card, art can show things that usually aren’t seen, such as framing a microaggression that occurs in daily life. Art like this has caused Charles to feel very strongly about collecting art exposing racism against African Americans, in an effort to help the cause. However, the art didn’t change his core beliefs, as he still commits minor microaggressions and doesn’t really understand until Charlotte singles him out at the end of the play. Just viewing and buying art doesn’t have the same effect as Alex taking to the streets and meeting people, for example. In digital art, such as the 3D creation software I use, I can change the color of people’s eyes. I can change the color of someone’s skin. I can control everything. I can even put this art on a website and spread it to people all over the internet, but art can’t change real people’s beliefs, the prejudice ingrained through their upbringing. Art may be able to expose injustice and spread awareness, but compared to experiencing these events in real life or having them happen to you, art and words distance the viewer from reality. This is a major part of why Charles and Alex see things differently, especially in regard to the autopsy. Charles sees one among many, as a statistic, but Alex sees a real person, one among many.
